1. Output to the user that they are playing the Oregon Trail and the rules of the game, which is to make it from the
East Coast to the Oregon Trail. This game is based in the 1800s, when the Oregon Trail was prominent. Users need to use
purchased resources and hunting to survive (using a purchased rifle and bullets) , while also making sure they keep
their cattle pulling the wagon (which may have to be repaired through purchased spare parts. Another issue for the
settler is medical problems; the user must make sure they have enough bandages and medicine to survive the journey;
the user loses if all oxen or all players die.
2. The first step is to pick what profession you are; either a farmer, banker, or carpenter. This choice affects how
much money you start with, amount of cattle, and amount of people in a family. A farmer starts with $5,000, 6 cattle,
a cart that can carry 4 tons of goods, and their family is comprised of 3 people. A banker will start with $15,000,
no cattle, a cart that can carry 4 tons of goods, and a family of 5. The carpenter starts with $8,000, 2 cattle, a cart
that can carry 3 tons of goods (carpenters get a discounted price on spare parts), and 3 people to provide for.
3. Once a user choses their profession, they will be prompted to enter their name, as well as their family members.
4. The next prompt will have the user buy their supplies for their treacherous journey. The available items include
cattle (priced at $500 per), meals (priced at $5 per), bandages (priced at $5 per), medicine (priced at $5 per), rifles
(priced at $200 per), bullet cases (priced at $25 per), wheels (priced at $50 per, $25 for carpenter), and axels (priced
at $50 per, $25 for carpenter).
5. The next text will tell the user that they're beginning their journey.
6. The user goes through one day of travel and have to face problems or choices. They could be prompted about a fork in
the road, a river to cross, or even a family member or oxe injured or fallen sick. Users will come across trading towns
along the way, which act as progression barometers. If the user chooses, they can barter with the locals for goods or
pay a fee to stay for the night and be cured of all afflictions. At the end of a regular day, the user will be prompted
on the health of the people and oxen, list of supplies, and condition of the cart. The user is then asked if they wish
to hunt, which provides food for your family. In order to make a succesful kill, the user must solve math problems.
Based on the size of the animal, you are allowed to take a portion of meat from each kill: the larger the animal, the
harder the math problems. For a rabbit, you can take up to 2.5 meal rations, you can take up to 5.0 meal rations from a
duck, a deer will provide a max of 10.0 meal rations, and a bear will output 20.0 meal rations.
7. The user will have to endure this process for 30-40, depending on the routes they choose. If they reach Oregon, the
game outputs "Congratulations", name, "You have reached Oregon!"; if not, the user is given "Better luck next time!"